Commands
========

TODO: This is pretty wildly out of date!

Details of Common Commands
--------------------------

Most Cosmic Ray commands use a verb-options pattern, similar to how git
does things.

Possible verbs are:

-  baseline
-  counts
-  `exec <#exec>`__
-  help
-  `init <#init>`__
-  load
-  operators
-  `dump <#dump>`__
-  run
-  survival-rate
-  test-runners
-  worker

Detailed information on each command can be found by running
``cosmic-ray help <command>`` in the terminal.

Cosmic Ray also installs a few other separate commands for producing
various kinds of reports. These commands are:

-  cr-report: provides a report on the status of a session
-  cr-rate: prints the survival rate of a session

Use these by piping the output of ``cosmic-ray dump`` into them. For
example:

.. code:: shell

    $ cosmic-ray dump test_session | cr-report
    $ cosmic-ray dump test_session | cr-rate

Verbosity: Getting more Feedback when Running
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The base command, ``cosmic-ray``, has a single option: ``--verbose``.
The ``--verbose`` option changes the internal logging level from
``WARN`` to ``INFO`` and thus prints more information to the terminal.

When used with ``init``, ``--verbose`` will list how long it took to
create the mutation list and will also list which modules were found:

.. code:: shell

    (.venv-pyerf) ~/PyErf$ cosmic-ray --verbose init --baseline=2 test_session pyerf -- pyerf/tests
    INFO:root:timeout = 0.259958 seconds
    INFO:root:Modules discovered: ['pyerf.tests', 'pyerf.tests.test_pyerf', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'pyerf', 'pyerf.__about__']
    (.venv-pyerf) C:\dev\PyErf>cosmic-ray --verbose init --baseline=2 test_session pyerf --exclude-modules=.*tests.* -- pyerf/tests
    INFO:root:timeout = 0.239948 seconds
    INFO:root:Modules discovered: ['pyerf.pyerf', 'pyerf', 'pyerf.__about__']

When used with ``exec``, ``--verbose`` displays which mutation is
currently being tested:

.. code:: shell

    (.venv-pyerf) ~/PyErf$ cosmic-ray --verbose exec test_session
    INFO:cosmic_ray.tasks.worker:executing: ['cosmic-ray', 'worker', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'number_replacer', '0', 'unittest', '--', 'pyerf/tests']
    INFO:cosmic_ray.tasks.worker:executing: ['cosmic-ray', 'worker', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'number_replacer', '1', 'unittest', '--', 'pyerf/tests']
    INFO:cosmic_ray.tasks.worker:executing: ['cosmic-ray', 'worker', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'number_replacer', '2', 'unittest', '--', 'pyerf/tests']
    INFO:cosmic_ray.tasks.worker:executing: ['cosmic-ray', 'worker', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'number_replacer', '3', 'unittest', '--', 'pyerf/tests']
    INFO:cosmic_ray.tasks.worker:executing: ['cosmic-ray', 'worker', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'number_replacer', '4', 'unittest', '--', 'pyerf/tests']
    INFO:cosmic_ray.tasks.worker:executing: ['cosmic-ray', 'worker', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'number_replacer', '5', 'unittest', '--', 'pyerf/tests']
    INFO:cosmic_ray.tasks.worker:executing: ['cosmic-ray', 'worker', 'pyerf.pyerf', 'number_replacer', '6', 'unittest', '--', 'pyerf/tests']

The ``--verbose`` option does not add any additional information to the
``dump`` verb.

Command: init
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``init`` verb creates a list of mutations to apply to the source
code. It has the following optional arguments:

-  ``--no-local-import``: Allow importing module from the current
   directory.
-  ``--test-runner=R``: Use a different test runner, such as pytest or
   nose.
-  ``exclude-modules=P``: Exclude modules matching this regex pattern
   from mutation.

Some packages place the tests within a sub-package of the main one:

::

    C:\dev\PyErf
    ¦   .gitignore
    ¦   .travis.yml
    ¦   CHANGELOG.md
    ¦   LICENSE
    ¦   README.rst
    ¦   requirements-dev.txt
    ¦   setup.py
    ¦
    +---docs
    ¦       conf.py
    ¦       index.rst
    ¦       make.bat
    ¦       Makefile
    ¦
    +---pyerf
        ¦   __init__.py
        ¦   __about__.py
        ¦   pyerf.py
        ¦
        +---tests
                __init__.py
                test_pyerf.py

As mentioned in
`here <#An-important-note-on-separating-tests-and-production-code>`__,
this can be handled via the ``--exlcuded-modules`` flag. With the
example above, the command to run would be from the Project directory
(``C:\dev\PyErf``):

::

    cosmic-ray init --baseline=2 test_session pyerf --exclude-modules=.*tests.* -- pyerf/tests

Command: exec
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``exec`` command is what actually runs the mutation testing. There
is only one optional argument: ``--dist``. See `Running distributed
mutation testing <#running-distributed-mutation-testing>`__ for details.

Command: dump
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``dump`` command writes a detailed JSON representation of a session
to stdout.

.. code:: shell

    $ cosmic-ray dump test_session
    {"data": ["<TestReport 'test_project/tests/test_adam.py::Tests::test_bool_if' when='call' outcome='failed'>"], "test_outcome": "killed", "worker_outcome": "normal", "diff": ["--- mutation diff ---", "--- a/Users/sixtynorth/projects/sixty-north/cosmic-ray/test_project/adam.py", "+++ b/Users/sixtynorth/projects/sixty-north/cosmic-ray/test_project/adam.py", "@@ -20,7 +20,7 @@", "     return (not object())", " ", " def bool_if():", "-    if object():", "+    if (not object()):", "         return True", "     raise Exception('bool_if() failed')", " "], "module": "adam", "operator": "cosmic_ray.operators.boolean_replacer.AddNot", "occurrence": 0, "line_number": 32, "command_line": ["cosmic-ray", "worker", "adam", "add_not", "0", "pytest", "--", "-x", "tests"], "job_id": "c2bb71e6203d44f6af42a7ee35cb5df9"}
    . . .

Generally you'll want to pipe this output into another tool to generate
some sort of report. For example, you can find the survival rate of a
session by piping ``cosmic-ray dump`` into ``cr-rate``:

.. code:: shell

    $ cosmic-ray dump test_session | cr-rate

``dump`` is designed to allow users to develop their own reports. To do
this, you need a program which reads a series of JSON structures from
stdin. See the ``cr-rate`` and ``cr-report`` tools included with Cosmic
Ray for more details.

``cosmic-ray dump`` **can** be run while ``exec`` is running! This is
super useful for seeing how far along a your mutation testing is:

.. code:: shell

    # Run exec in the background
    (.venv-pyerf) ~/PyErf$ cosmic-ray exec test_session &
    (.venv-pyerf) ~/PyErf$ cosmic-ray dump test_session | cr-report
    total jobs: 682
    completed: 18 (2.64%)
    incompetent: 0 (0.00%)
    survival rate: 0.00%
